at night, most of the time no preaching.
Alright, so when you came to the campus, you had no
free time really. That's right. Unless you had a
one hour break.
That first semester, did you go to some of the
campus activities? Like Yale practice? No. Did
you go to football games? Some of them. Didn't have
enough money to go to very many of them. Describe a
football day, a football Saturday here. What time
would you come to the campus? Well, I'd just stay
because we stayed at school until noon. So we'd
just stay over. If my riders could find some way to
get home, I'd just stay over. So I wouldn't have to
come back. Now would you wear your dress uniform to
class that morning or would you change clothes?
No, we just wore the uniform and wore it to the ball
game. And did the Corps march in in those days or
just go straight to your seats in the game? Oh, I
think they marched in. They marched in. But the
fact that I was not in the dormitory, I usually just
went as a casual. I didn't march into any of the
football games at that time. Now let's see, the
head coach, was Coach Norton here then? He was
there. The first, well I guess maybe for the whole
time I was there. Haskell, I think he was. So you
didn't eat much in the, in Sevesa? Were the new core
dorms being built yet? They were started about my
junior year, I guess it was, because our civil
engineer classes went over a number of times. That
was an inspection trip, you know, to watch the
dormitory being built. Now, what was out there
before? What was on that piece of ground before
they were built? Nothing. It was just vacant. Was
it used as a playground? Oh, I think it was part of
the pasture. Part of the people that had the, you
know, part of the departments that had horses and
cows and this sort of thing. I think it was. Now,
between what is now the core area and the Welborn
Road, there were lots of faculty houses, weren't
there? That's right. On the campus? Many of them.
And then at one,
oh from the middle 30s on, the old big project
houses were in there. You know about those deals.
What did you and your buddies think about those
project houses? Well, you know, I didn't have any
adverse feeling toward them. It looked to me like
there was an excellent way for those boys to stay in
school, and it was. That was a project of Mr. Dan
Russell's. He had that idea, and it was a super
thing. And the most dedicated Aggie former
students that I know are the Project House
graduates. They're the ones most proud, most
grateful. Well, you know, they could bring stuff
from home to play part of their board and room. Of
course, that was the idea of it. Now, what was your
routine for class? Did you go to class every day?
And did you sit in a certain place up front or in the
back? I liked to sit up front. I found out they
didn't ask me so many questions when I sat up front.
Because the guys that were looking to get away from
the questions always sat in the back. And it was
harder to go to sleep in the front, wasn't it? Well,
it was. And Haskell, I was interested in going to
school. I wasn't interested in any horseplay and
try to irritate the professors and this or that.
Some of them gave them a bad time. But
to answer your question, we had special seats we
sat in. And
did you talk to the teachers much? Did you go up
after class? Not a whole lot. So you didn't go up and
introduce yourself or anything like that? Well,
they all took place when you started. You tried to
make him know who you were. What did you do to stay
awake? Because occasionally you must have gotten
sleepy. I don't remember that being a big problem.
The only problem that I remember it was was in the
chemistry lecture hall where there was about 300,
and it was done by Mr. Harrington, I believe. M.T.
Harrington. M.T. Harrington. The best lecturer
that there ever was in the world. Describe him.
Make believe I had never met him. Well, he was tall
and stately, and when he talked, he talked like
this. You could understand every word he said, all
over the thing. And he was so articulate and
so...things
were... unraveled so smoothly the way he talked.
He always talked to you. He didn't turn around and
talk to the board and all this sort of thing. Did he
give the impression that he was proud to be a
teacher? He did. Did he relate well to the
students? He sure did. I believe that he was as
universally liked as anybody that I had in the
whole system. Did he have a nickname? I've never
heard a nickname for him. I don't remember one if
you did. When you got your grades that first
semester, do you remember how you did? In
chemistry? No, the whole semester. Oh, I did art
except on chemistry. I don't think I made any A's. I
made a good many B's and two or three C's. I made one D
as I remember in English I think it was. So I passed
and that was, you know, I wasn't trying to be
valedictorian or anything. I was interested in
getting through school. During the day, if you
wanted to go get a snack or anything or just take a
break, where did you and your buddies go during the
class day? I don't remember doing that. So you
didn't go over to the YMCA or anything? No. Not me.
First place didn't have any money for it. I didn't
have any spending money, Haskell. And so you
weren't involved in any jokes or pranks? Not
really. A good bull? No. I'm sure I missed some of
that, but, you know, I was there to get my education
and thought I was fortunate to be able to. All
right. Did you go on a court trip? No. I went on one my
senior year. I went to Fort Worth. And the only
reason I did, because I had an aunt that lived in
Fort Worth, I could spend the night with her. How
did you get up there?
Must have gone in my old car. I can't remember. No, I
tell you, my senior year my dad traded that car off
for a better Plymouth, and I think I went in that
Plymouth because I didn't go on a court trip except
in my senior year. Did you take a load of guys with
you? No. I took down my fiancée. She was one of my
riders, too. She and I started first grade
together. Oh, really? Yeah. And what was she doing
on the campus? She was a secretary at the extension
service. Okay. She was a secretary to three
ladies, three of those extension specialists.
And where were their offices? What building? It's
what's the trigon now. Okay. That was the
extension service. Describe what was around the
campus then, what areas were developed. Well,
Guyon Hall was there at that time. Yes. Hart Hall
was there. Mitchell Hall was there. The trees were
rather small, I guess. Yes. They had been planted
some four or five years, most of them. Railroad
Station was a busy place. It was.
And like you said, there were a lot of the
residences on there. Let me think. But at
Northgate, what was at Northgate? Oh, there
weren't but two or three things there. Hollick
Boot Shop was one. Hollick made my boots. Was Old
Army Lou, he was in business already? Yes. Was the
campus theater open yet? I think it opened, if I'm
not mistaken, while I was there. And then there was
a drive-in back there, you know, the open-air
drive-in, where all those buildings and the
high-rises and things are now. Seemed to me like
that's where that thing was. But there weren't
many houses on Southside and east of Texas Avenue,
were there? East of Texas? No, not many. There was a
first court that was in Bryan was over there and
it's called Bluetop Court. You ever hear of that?
You're talking about Tourist Court? Tourist
Court. What it was, it was an office and then each
little cabin, and I don't know how many people, I
guess one person would rent the cabin, and they all
had blue roofs and they called it the Bluetop
Court. About where was that? Well, it was about
where, in the area where that shopping center is
and the red, what's the fish place, red something?
Oh, Red Lobster. Red Lobster. Okay. In that area.
Of course, none of that was there. And when you
started from Bryan to college, You know where R.B.
Butler's construction office was? And the big old
two-story house that was the doctor's office,
it's now a
fraternity. That was the last thing there was
until you got out to where the Ramada Inn is now.
Nothing was in there pasturing. And where
University goes east, there was a grocery store
right on the corner there called Macy's Grocery.
There wasn't anything on the other side. And the
University from there through the campus hadn't
been built but a few years. It was just a single
concrete road. What was the name of that street? It
wasn't University then. What was it named?
I can't remember. I'm trying to recall what it was.
I didn't tell you. Now the streetcar, was it still
operating? No. It had stopped? Yeah. So that, was
there a bus? Was there a city bus that went from? No.
When I first remember, I ask them,
Main Street of Bryan was Houston Highway. It went
straight on out and went down what's now,
what do they call that street? William J. Bryan?
No, over on the east side, I mean west side. where
Main goes on out. That's the way the Houston
Highway went and got to where the Farmer's Market
is and it turned and went back to the railroad and
went right down the railroad. Wellborn was on the
way to the Houston Highway. And the depot, the
railroad depot was right down in the middle of
Bryan near the old courthouse. Wasn't the depot
down there? You're talking about the Bryan Depot?
Uh-huh. Yeah. Yeah, it was
just about where the Children's Museum is now.
Yeah, yeah. Right along in there. Now, how often
did your family come to Bryan to buy groceries or
anything? Well, not regularly, but... Once a
month? Probably not over average of once a month.
My daddy had what he called a commissary to furnish
the sharecroppers. They would buy groceries and
stuff and then pay them in the fall when they got
their money in. So a lot of the groceries that we had
were bought that way. We bought them out had beans
and sugar and rice and coffee and this sort of
thing. And he'd come to Brian to the wholesale
place and get those and then furnish his
sharecroppers with that. Did your mother and
other women do a lot of canning and preserving? Oh,
yes, sir. We even canned beef. My daddy would kill a
beef. and Mother would process it and we'd put it in
tin cans and had a sealer for those cans, seal them
and then put them in a pressure cooker and cook them
and those things would last from then on. Now was
there a gin in Wheelock? And then where did the corn
get processed? They had a mill in Wheelock that
ground the corn and he ground it for He took a toll
out of it. Nobody paid him. Took a toll out of the
corn. And it was a blacksmith shop and a corn mill.
And he ground it as corn meal. That's right. Not
flour. Corn meal. There was no flour made in
Wheeler. Now did y'all eat grits ever? Not much.
See, I didn't know grits existed when I was a little
kid. Because that was something you had to buy.
Yeah. We didn't need much that you had to buy.
When your family were going to kind of celebrate,
what did they do? Like did they ever take a
vacation? No. Go fishing for fun or hunting for
fun? Once a year, several of the Wheelock families
would go what they called camping. Most of the time
it was over on the Navasota River at one of the lakes
and stayed two or three days. And the ladies would
take all the food and the men would catch a few fish.
But that was almost the vacations. And those lakes
were pretty small, weren't they? Well, they were,
but at the time I don't know whether they were on
private property or what, but everybody would
come in and camp on them. It didn't seem to make any
difference. You didn't have to get any
permission. All right. So while you're doing all
these tasks, your freshman year went pretty well.
And did you ever think about dropping out of
school? No. Okay. Never. Then that first summer
you worked part-time on the campus and took some
extra courses. Yes. I liked those courses. They
went in a hurry, you know, six weeks Then your
sophomore year, was it very different from your
freshman year? Yeah. You began to feel like you
sort of belonged out there then, and then of course
I think the course had got a little more difficult
too. Did you have any special courses that you
recall that sophomore year that were important to
you? Well, it began to take a few things that were
truly civil engineering. It took some structures
and things that rather than the arithmetic and the
chemistry and the physics and this sort of thing.
Who were some of those engineering teachers that
you remember? Cy Sandstedt was one. you know of
him. C.E. Sanstead, I believe, is his name. Joe Orr
was another one. Joe Orr taught surveying.
What was special about them?
Something special about Joe Orr, he'd take his
surveying class out and do work, and I think he got
paid for it. I don't have no way of knowing, but I bet
he did. And then
what was the head of... You said Sanstead. What
about him? What was special about him? Oh, he was
not a flashy... He was a sort of a reserved type
teacher. He wasn't...
Nothing really outstanding about him. He was a
good teacher. Had the boys well at heart. But I was
trying to think what the other teacher's name was.
He's got a son who's a doctor here now. What's his
name? C.E. Department.
Doctor, doctor...
He's over here on North Avenue, I believe it is.
Doesn't ring a bell. Doesn't ring a bell. Who were
your best buddies? Well, mostly the boys that I
worked with on, you know, the student labor. Who?
I had one little old boy from Brady. What was that
little boy's name? I'd have to get an old manual out
over there and think. I had another one that
married a cousin of mine named
Carter, Frank Carter, and incidentally he was
with the Rudders Rangers that went in on D-Day. He
was badly injured and has since passed away. In
fact, I introduced him to his wife. He married my
cousin. I was going to tell you a funny story, in
fact, I thought this fellow's name that taught us
part of our summer CE class. We were out south of the
campus and we did triangulation and we shot
Polaris at night, which is the star of what you
orient on, you know, and we'd get in the truck and
some of us have to go way across the pasture to do our
work and Two or three of us would do the instrument
work, and then the others would get up and they'd do
it. And while we were doing it, they'd either sit in
the shade or whatever. So this professor had told
us, didn't want us laying around in the shade. And
he didn't want them without shirts on because of
the sun, you know. Well, one morning we went way off
over there and one old boy named, boy and his name
was Sharp. I remember that, Chico Sharp. He laid
down on his stomach and his back was blistered from
the sun. He didn't think the professor would be
over there. And he carried a walking stick. Well,
that particular morning he walked over there. And
he took that stick and he rubbed it down Chico's
back. And Chico thought it was some of us. And he
said, you son of a bitch.
McNew. McNew. That's his name. Lamar McNew's
father. Lamar McNew. Yeah, yeah. And Magnus said,
Chico, get up and put your shirt on. That's all he
ever said at the time. But you said, Mom, some funny
stories. Now that was a funny story. That's good.
All right. With your sophomore year, did you have
any grade troubles or did things get better from
there on? I didn't have any problems sophomore
year.
Did you go to more football games your sophomore
year? No, I just went to a bare number, you know. I'd
usually work on Saturday afternoon if I had the
opportunity. All right. Where would you and your
date go if you had a date on Saturday night? Where
did you all go? We'd come to Bryan, go to a show.
Which, there were three downtown, three movies?
There were two at that time, as I remember. Two?
What were they? The Palace and The Queen. Do you
remember any special movies that you all saw? I
don't remember. There was also a drug store on the
corner and you could park and honk your horn and
they'd come out and wait on you, you know. And then
there was a restaurant over on Bryan Street called
Uncle Buck's. The name was Buchanan.
If we didn't go to the drugstore, we'd go by there
and get us a sandwich, and get a big old sandwich for
25 cents, and that was our dead meal. And cut it in
half? Yeah. At what time were you supposed to have
her home? They didn't give me any time. I think I was
pretty well trusted with that girl. Her father
owned a store there in Wheelock. And did you all go
to the same church? We did.
Here on the campus, do you remember when you first
went to Silver Taps? I sure don't. I didn't go to
many, but I did And I think the first one I went to was
my freshman year, and the reason I did, one of the
boys died that I was a pretty good friend with, one
of my C.E. buddies. He got,
what is this, what's this?
what the ailment was. It's this thing sort of like
flu and
where you die from congestion and all this.
Pneumonia? No. It hit the campus right at
Christmas. Oh, oh, oh. Influenza? Yeah. Some type
of influenza. Anyhow, he died, and I had been up in
his room studying at times. Scared the fool out of
me, I'll tell you for sure. And I went to his silver
taps, and I think that's the first thing I ever went
to. Describe Silver Taps then compared to now in
terms of how it was done. Was it the same way? Well,
it was out in the area in front of the old
administration building where Sully is, and they
blew the taps from up on top of this administration
building. That's where the bugler was. And
everybody sat on the ground and that's where it
took place. Did everybody take it seriously? Very
seriously. Nobody played any? No, there wasn't
any horseplay at all. It was very quiet and when it
was over they left without talking and very
solemn. What about Bonfire? Do you remember? Oh, I
do. I do. Describe. It was a bunch of trash. That
they gathered around the campus, didn't they?
That's right. Gathered it up in the stores in boxes
and barrels and it was over on what's now the drill
field, the old, what do they call it? Just the drill
field. Yeah. It's got a name though now. Oh, it's
now named for the general. Yeah. Simpson.
Simpson. That's where it was at that time. Did you
ever help? No. No. Now, did they pick it up with the
push carts from the railroad station? I've heard
that. Yeah, or wagons or drug it, whatever. You
know, I've got two of those old carts out at my
place. Really? Two of those old railroad things.
Oh my, how good, how good. All right, what about
muster? Do you remember going to muster before
World War II?
I don't really remember much about muster. The
first musters that I went to were after. I truly
don't remember any musters, and I don't know
whether they had them or not. Does anybody
remember having muster? Nobody does. Just about
like what you said, some of them say, I think they
may have had one, but I'm not sure whether I went or
not. And I'm convinced that World War II changed
that in turn. I think it did. I went to the one where
Eisenhower was the speaker right after the war. In
fact, I've been to nearly every muster since the
war. During your years, describe the student body
in general, the students that were here. Where
were they from? What kind of families?
There was a lot of them from the farms and ranches.
I think I would just class them as, you know, normal
boys of the time. Some city boys, of course, and
lots of farm boys. About how many students had a car
then? Darn, none of them. Oh, there wasn't a
sprinkling of cars. How many drove to the campus
like you did? A dozen? A dozen? Well, I wouldn't
even guess because most of the people that parked
in that parking lot were professors or staff of
some sort. And a bunch of them came from the project
houses in buses or old trucks that had seats on
them. And that's where they'd come and let the boys
off and then back out. There was a sprinkling of day
students that had cars. I mean students that had
cars. But most everybody lived on campus. Oh,
yeah. Well, there were a few off campuses, but not a
lot of them. And in terms of family income, there
were lots of poor boys, but a few from well-to-do
families? There were. Were there any students in
your day that you all knew were from rich families?
Do you remember any of them? A few. Do you remember
who they were by name? No.
This boy that died came from a pretty well-off
family, I remember that, from down in Pharr,
Texas. That's where he was from. That's
P-H-A-R-R. That's right. And in terms of their
national background, there were German boys and
Czech boys. But you know we didn't have a lot of
these foreigners like we got now. We had what the
United States had as foreigners, but none of the,
gosh there wasn't any Japanese or Chinese to mount
anything. Were there some Hispanic,
American-Hispanic boys? There were, there were.
And how was everybody treated, the students? I
assume with much respect. Did it matter? Were you
treated any special way because your father was a
farmer? I doubt it. I doubt it. I think most of them
were treated however they were able to place
themselves in society. I remember Reveille. Oh,
describe. I got a picture of her in my annual. I just
saw it this morning. Because Reveley was new then,
wasn't it? The little cur dog, yeah. In fact, I
think she came there maybe either while I was there
or just before. Describe that dog. Little fat cur
dog about that long and about that big around.
Little brownish-gray dog. And she just won.